# Grant hFOB CRISPRi Screen and Associated Analyses
This Github is a repository for all the code used to complete the analyses
presented in "GWAS-informed data integration and non-coding CRISPRi screen 
reveals etiological insights for bone mineral density" (Conery *et al.*). 
It is organized into the following eight sections:

### 1) 1_ATAC-seq_Processing ###
This folder contains the ENCODE configuration files necessary to call 
peaks for the new and re-processed ATAC/ChIP-seq data sets used in the S-LDSC 
analysis and CRISPRi target selection. It also contains the scripts used 
to download the reprocessed FASTQ files and the files necessary to check the 
quality of the osteoclast datasets.

### 2) 2_S-LDSC_Heritability_Enrichment ###
This folder contains the scripts used for executing the S-LDSC analysis which
includes the script used to munge the summary statistics used in the S-LDSC
and cross-trait LDSC analyses. The following figures were generated by the 
code in this section:

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 1 - **make_s-ldsc_enrichment_plots.R**  \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S1 - **make_s-ldsc_enrichment_plots.R** 

### 3) 3_hFOB_Capture-C_and_RNA-seq ###
This folder contains the code used to generate the new hFOB RNA-seq results 
and the HICUP config file used to create the Capture-C dataset.

### 4) 4_Target_Selection_and_sgRNA_Design ###
This folder conains the scripts used to select the screen targets from the 
hMSC-Osteoblast and hFOB RNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and Capture-C results. It also 
contains the scripts and commands used to design the sgRNAs. The following 
figures were generated by the code in this section:

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 2a - **compare_bone_cell_pcc.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 2d - **run_pygenome.sh** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 2e - **run_pygenome.sh** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S19 - **run_pygenome.sh** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S20 - **run_pygenome.sh** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S21 - **run_pygenome.sh** 

### 5) 5_Single-Cell_QC_and_Sceptre ###
The folder contains the scripts used to quality filter the scRNA-seq screen 
readouts and the SCEPTRE analysis used to test for significant perturbations. 
The following figures were generated by the code in this section:

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 2b - **sceptre_differential_expression.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 2c - **sceptre_differential_expression.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S3 - **crispri_screen_qc.py** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S4 - **crispri_screen_qc.py** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S5 - **crispri_screen_qc.py** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S6 - **compare_to_bulk_hFOBs.py** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S7 - **sceptre_differential_expression.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S8 - **test_markers_for_screen_hits.R** 

### 6) 6_Osteoblast_Assays ###
This folder contains the script that tests for significant effects of siRNA
knockdown in the osteoblast and adipogenesis assays. The following figures were
generated by the code in this section:

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 3 - **make_main_assay_figures.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S11 - **make_osteoblast_marker_figures.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S14 - **make_gene_kd_qpcr_figures.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S15 - **make_plate-normalized_assay_figures.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S16 - **make_main_assay_figures.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S17 - **make_plate-normalized_assay_figures.R**

### 7) 7_Genetic_Correlations ###
This folder contains the codes for executing the cross-trait LDSC analysis for
genetic correlations. The following figures were generated by the code in this
section:

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 4 - **make_rg_barplot.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S22 - **make_rg_barplot.R**

### 8) 8_Multi-Trait_Fine-Mapping ###
This folder contains all the scripts needed to execute the cross-trait fine-mapping experiment and analyze the full results. The following figures were 
generated by the code in this section

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 5a - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.susie-coloc.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. 5b-d - 3_fine-mapping/**plot_all_susie-coloc.sh**/**plot_susie_coloc_locus.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S23 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.susie-coloc.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S24 - 3_fine-mapping/**plot_all_susie-coloc.sh**/**plot_susie_coloc_locus.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S25 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.susie-coloc.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S26 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S27 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.susie-coloc.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S28 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S29 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S30 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.R** \
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Fig. S31 - 4_analyze_BMD_signals/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.R**/**cluster_signals_and_check_overlap.susie-coloc.R** 

\*Some of the figures were manually edited after being created in the scripts above
to include or adjust labels \
\*\*Other figures not covered by the above scripts were either created from 
photographs or manually drawn

All code made available pursuant to a Non-Profit Open Software License (“Non-Profit OSL”) version 3.0 (See LICENSE)
